README.md, before:

# SUSE Apprentices Timesheets made easy

## Contributions are welcome:
   + [ ] Implement working hours carryover(Stundenübertrag)
   + [ ] Possibility to add more days with one command for vacation, etc.
   + [ ] `export` should accept date without day, like this `-d 10.2019`
   + [x] Adding "special" days like: vacation, school; only date and comment needed for that
   + [x] Method to fill in records from json file to xlsx exported file
   + [x] Method to create file names like `timesheet_2019_10.json` `timesheet_2019_10.xlsx` and implement where needed
   + [x] Method to load specific json files of the given date's month and year

## Structure
+ Data is saved internally as `json` strings
+ Exports to `xlsx`, therefore: `pip install openpyxl`

## How it looks like
### Help
```
./azubi-timesheet.py --help
usage: azubi-timesheet [-v] [-n] [-s] [-d DD.MM.YYYY] [-w HH:MM-HH:MM]
                       [-b HH:MM-HH:MM] [-c COMMENT] [-h]
                       [add | delete | update | export]

Keep track of your work hours. Add, delete, update records. Export and print
at the end of the month!

positional arguments:
  add | delete | update | export
                        Choose one of these subcommands.

optional arguments:
  -v, --version         Show program's version number and exit.
  -n, --non-interactive
                        Do not ask anything, use default answers
                        automatically.
  -s, --special-record  Special records only need a date and a comment.
  -d DD.MM.YYYY, --date DD.MM.YYYY
                        Date of the record.
  -w HH:MM-HH:MM, --work-hours HH:MM-HH:MM
                        Begin and end time of the work day.
  -b HH:MM-HH:MM, --break-time HH:MM-HH:MM
                        Begin and end time of the break.
  -c COMMENT, --comment COMMENT
                        Comment of the record, if needed.
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit.
  ```

### Subcommands
+ `add` creates a new json string and appends it to the list
```
./azubi-timesheet.py add --date 07.10.2019 --work-hours 09:00-17:30 --break-time 12:00-12:30 --non-interactive
```
+ `add -s` adds special records like school, vacation, sick leave, where `--work-hours` or `--break_time` are **not** necessary
```
./azubi-timesheet.py add --date 09.10.2019 --comment "Berufsschule" --special-record
```
+ `update` finds record, updates it with the given data
```
./azubi-timesheet.py update --date 07.10.2019 --work-hours 10:00-18:30 --break-time 13:00-13:30 --non-interactive
```
+ `delete` removes record with given date
```
./azubi-timesheet.py delete --date 07.10.2019
```
+ `export` creates an `xlsx` document from the given date's **month** and **year**, day is not relevant
```
./azubi-timesheet.py export --date 01.12.2019
```

Commit message:

early implementation of carryover-hours

README.md, after:

# SUSE Apprentices Timesheets made easy

## Contributions are welcome:
   + [ ] Possibility to add more days with one command for vacation, etc.
   + [ ] `export` should accept date without day, like this `-d 10.2019`
   + [ ] Implement working hours carryover(Stundenübertrag)
   + Update: early implementation does the job, but it can't extract the value from previous month unless:
      you exported the previous month already AND opened the previous xlsx file AND Ctrl+S to save it,
      so that the calculated values of all formulas are saved. Not quite ideal.
   + [x] Adding "special" days like: vacation, school; only date and comment needed for that
   + [x] Method to fill in records from json file to xlsx exported file
   + [x] Method to create file names like `timesheet_2019_10.json` `timesheet_2019_10.xlsx` and implement where needed
   + [x] Method to load specific json files of the given date's month and year

## Structure
+ Data is saved internally as `json` strings
+ Exports to `xlsx`, therefore: `pip install openpyxl`

## How it looks like
### Help
```
./azubi-timesheet.py --help
usage: azubi-timesheet [-v] [-n] [-s] [-d DD.MM.YYYY] [-w HH:MM-HH:MM]
                       [-b HH:MM-HH:MM] [-c COMMENT] [-h]
                       [add | delete | update | export]

Keep track of your work hours. Add, delete, update records. Export and print
at the end of the month!

positional arguments:
  add | delete | update | export
                        Choose one of these subcommands.

optional arguments:
  -v, --version         Show program's version number and exit.
  -n, --non-interactive
                        Do not ask anything, use default answers
                        automatically.
  -s, --special-record  Special records only need a date and a comment.
  -d DD.MM.YYYY, --date DD.MM.YYYY
                        Date of the record.
  -w HH:MM-HH:MM, --work-hours HH:MM-HH:MM
                        Begin and end time of the work day.
  -b HH:MM-HH:MM, --break-time HH:MM-HH:MM
                        Begin and end time of the break.
  -c COMMENT, --comment COMMENT
                        Comment of the record, if needed.
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit.
  ```

### Subcommands
+ `add` creates a new json string and appends it to the list
```
./azubi-timesheet.py add --date 07.10.2019 --work-hours 09:00-17:30 --break-time 12:00-12:30 --non-interactive
```
+ `add -s` adds special records like school, vacation, sick leave, where `--work-hours` or `--break_time` are **not** necessary
```
./azubi-timesheet.py add --date 09.10.2019 --comment "Berufsschule" --special-record
```
+ `update` finds record, updates it with the given data
```
./azubi-timesheet.py update --date 07.10.2019 --work-hours 10:00-18:30 --break-time 13:00-13:30 --non-interactive
```
+ `delete` removes record with given date
```
./azubi-timesheet.py delete --date 07.10.2019
```
+ `export` creates an `xlsx` document from the given date's **month** and **year**, day is not relevant
```
./azubi-timesheet.py export --date 01.12.2019
```
